hey guys what's up and welcome back to
the small lytics channel
so today i am taking you through how i
meal plan
for the week and i'm using the word plan
instead of prep because i feel like for
me it's like when i hear the word meal
prep i just imagine myself
being in the kitchen like grinding away
for hours i have like every pot going
the ovens on and it's like craziness
it's just it makes me stressed you know
but when i say meal plan it's like okay
i'm just i'm just planning my week out
so that i can don't have to think about
food that much throughout the week
and i know that i already prepared
things
the way i want them so that i can stay
on track towards my goals
because we all know that if we're in a
pinch for
food like making decisions last minute
we are going to reach for
the easiest thing possible like the bars
or the cereals or the processed foods or
we're gonna order at night
if we don't plan our dinner ahead
probably gonna order food so in order to
just stay on track with my goals
i like to meal plan for the week i
create myself
a little weekly menu sesame wants to say
hi
sesame does not help me meal plan
because he's a little piggy and he likes
to eat everything
so he will not be very helpful in this
video except
for looking real freaking cute but yeah
you guys know how
if you do not plan ahead you'll end up
just going for what's easy
and then it'll be hard for you to reach
your goals if
you are always making last-minute
decisions and you don't
have an idea of what you're eating for
the week let alone it will be very hard
to reach your protein goals
if you're not really making a concerted
effort to get your protein levels up
so i'm going to take you guys through
step by step what i do to meal plan each
week so that
i'm prepared okay so step one is
to just take inventory of what you
already have in your fridge what you
didn't use up last week
or just you know to make sure you're not
letting food go to waste so i'll go into
my fridge
and just take a mental note of okay i
have you know some carrots that i need
to use i have
some spinach that's about to go bad or
whatever you need to use immediately so
that you can put it into your planning
for the week okay so step two for me is
i just get out any cooking books that i
have
and i kind of get into the like
inspiration
phase this doesn't have to take a long
time but i will just grab some books
that they have that i like to
use some of my favorites are gourmet
nutrition which is
actually written by the certification
that i have as a nutritionist precision
nutrition
i like to just get my brain in a sort of
okay what do i want to eat this week
what is inspired me
also maybe you know if i asked a friend
or a trainer friend or fitness friend
what they've been eating recently and
they'll say oh i have this really good
recipe
it's really macro friendly or whatever
i'll take it from them
uh or if i sell something on instagram
or i just you know i saw something
on netflix uh i love watching netflix
cooking shows i never used to be like
that but i
just love them now if i just see an
ingredient that inspires me or something
and i'm not even a good chef
just i see something i want it i'm
thinking about it
then i got it right then you gotta put
it into the
meal planning for the week and um
it just serves as a really easy way to
be like okay what do i want to eat this
week because
the last thing that you want to do is
put a bunch of really bland
foods in your meal plan that you know
you never normally eat but you just put
it there because you're like
i want to be perfect and want to have
the best strictest week ever
don't do that choose foods that you
actually know that you'll enjoy so that
when you're
going to put them together for your next
meal
you actually want to eat them otherwise
you won't eat them and you might order
or
go for something else so i really make
sure that the foods that i'm eating are
of course pff balance so protein fats
and fibrous carbs
and secondly that they actually are
appetizing to me they
actually make me hungry to think about
them rather than just you know
chicken and green beans which is
actually delicious but you don't want to
eat that every single day because you'll
get
bored so after i've gotten a little bit
inspired
i will then go into my macros app which
is what i used to meal plan
you do not need to track macros before i
used macros or meal
apps i just would write it down in my
sticky notes and i still do that
actually
some weeks depending on what's going on
but i write down okay here's what i'm
having for breakfast
here's what i'm having for lunch here's
what i'm having for my snack here's what
i'm having for dinner
if i'm having four meals that day that's
how i'll structure it and i'll also
sometimes just write the times of the
meals that i want to eat so that i can
structure it around my workday
product product productively i'll go
into my app
and i'll start to pull meals that i
i'm going to repeat because if you can
repeat meals that you know you love that
you're not sick of yet that's the
simplest way to do this really quick
and i know that recently i've been
loving
dave's killer bagels with egg whites you
guys if you follow me on instagram you
see that i've basically been eating that
every day
as my post-workout meal along with a
matcha
and some vanilla creamer and matcha so
that's a meal that i'm going to repeat
for my next week i already know i just
i look forward to that meal i love it
it's serving me
so don't break what isn't
broken don't fix don't fix that's the
saying don't fix what isn't broken
i'm not sick of it yet i'm not resorting
to ordering food because i'm sick of it
so i'm going to repeat that as my
post-workout meal for the next week so
this would kind of be in the step
two-ish category of what can you do keep
doing that was working before and if you
don't have anything
no history of foods logged or recipes
you like to use it's okay you're just
gonna be
starting from scratch and saying okay
what breakfast food is appealing to me
what's a quick recipe
it also has to fit your lifestyle and
your how you
you know move throughout your day if you
need to have it prepped
ahead the night before a chia pudding or
a parfait
protein parfait would be a really good
option if you can cook your breakfast
then you might want
eggs or something that it was served hot
oats whatever
after you've done this for many years
you'll also find that you kind of eat
the same rotation of foods
especially if you eat a pretty
non-processed diet like i do
fruits and vegetables and lean proteins
and healthy fats
there's only so many i mean there's a
lot but there's only so many and you're
gonna have your favorites and
the point that i met in my journey is i
know which foods i'm gonna repeat
it's really just putting a twist on the
recipe so that it still tastes
fresh and new and exciting to me so one
of my classic meals that i have almost
every day
is some kind of parfait but there's so
much you can do with toppings and
protein powders or just to change the
flavor up
so i'm going to be taking my
yogurt that i always have and i'm just
gonna make it a fruit parfait this week
i'm gonna mix in some cacao powder about
two tablespoons i'm going to add in a
little bit of sweetener i usually use
like a liquid stevia like two drops just
to make a little sweet
i do buy zero percent or two percent
greek yogurt
and it's non-flavored there's no added
sugar in it
um lots of yogurts tend to have lots of
hidden sugars in them so it's best to
just get the non-fat
and sweeten it up with fruits and
natural sugars like that
of course i do add the zero calorie
sweetener which i just
enjoy so the cacao powder is that's a
superfood
it's going to give it a nice chocolaty
taste and then i'm going to add some
granola
on top of that i love this blueberry
granola from kind so i programmed that
in
and i might add some small little slices
of strawberries raspberries or
blueberries whatever kind of fruit i
have in my fridge from this week and i
do have some leftover fruit
and then i also like to have a really
big lunch meal so i'm going to add in
some oats and peanut butter
and i like to just keep my oats simple i
just do oats and
water almond milk peanut butter and some
salt and
that just does it for me i enjoy that so
that's going to be my
second meal of the day on my meal plan
i will also say i do try to sneak in
veggies into as many meals as possible
so in my breakfast
eggs on the bagel i might cook some
spinach into the eggs
or some carrots or some you know finely
chopped broccoli just to keep
make sure i'm adding fiber and
vegetables to all my meals
okay for my third meal recently i've
been really into breakfast
food so this meal week of meal planning
was really
kind of inspired by just i like eating
breakfast
a lot so i'm making a sweet potato hash
with turkey or chicken sausage of course
i always say you guys 80 of the time eat
your
whole unprocessed foods and the other 20
can go to fun foods i would count the
sausage as a fun food
it's processed it's not you know the
best but
that's where my fun foods go to more
savory things or sweets which we'll get
to as well
and so i'm going to be making a sweet
potato hash it's going to have carrots
spinach sweet potatoes
i'm going to have a side of green beans
i'm going to put the turkey
sausage in it or chicken sausage and
if i need a little bit more protein
added to that i might sprinkle in some
egg whites
just to get the protein content up but
it should be good with
you know four to five small sausages
or you know the media when you buy the
sausages they're like
i'm not talking like the huge ones like
just like the little ones that come in
the breakfast
packs so i have been loving
this peanutter recipe i've mentioned it
like a bunch of times on instagram and
this channel
and it's basically a peanut butter
cookie that is high protein
if you guys want the recipe you can go
to yourhealthyheatednessa.com or
your hurts her instagram handle michelle
she has a free
ebook called the best of the basics and
i've been using that
to find some really good sweets that are
high in protein
and balanced in terms of pf and macros
so i can reach my goals
and these cookies you guys they do not
even taste like
a protein or a healthy cookie they're
just so good if you like peanut butter
you're gonna love these so i
make a batch of these each week i'll
make them ahead of time
and then i put them in the freezer as
cookie dough balls and i just eat
them as cookie dough bites whenever i
kind of need a snack
and they have chocolate in them they're
so good and they're pff balanced so they
don't give me a crazy sugar spike
and that's what i'm going to have as a
snack this is something i repeated from
previous weeks because it's been working
for me so i'm just carrying on to this
week
and then for dinner i have been having
these
small little racks little like
what am i trying to say like ground beef
taco wraps
and i'll switch up what i use as the
actual
carb i have been using the i think if
you pronounce it
hikama wraps which is i think a
vegetable that could be totally wrong
you guys but
they i got them from trader joe's and
they're like these thin
um wraps that are just low in calorie
but really crunchy and delicious it kind
of tastes like a radish
and i put the ground beef in there and
then i put cheese on top and i use
zero percent greek yogurt as my
sour cream substitute so this is a great
high protein
uh meal to have for dinner and i'll use
car
you know regular tortillas as well just
depends on
you guys know i do carb cycling if it's
a rest day i might use the jacoma wraps
because i don't need those carbs i'm not
hungry enough to really use a
full you know have like 60 grams of
carbs for dinner i just don't need it
but if i did have a training day i up my
carbs a bit so i'll have more of like a
corn or flour tortilla
as my dinner meal and i love mexican
food mexican food is so easy to balance
bff as well
so i'll often do some kind of like bowl
macro bowl or like burrito bowl or taco
as
a really easy pff meal so
this is how i meal plan for the week and
once i know generally the types of
things i'll be cooking my
final step is to go on to
the grocery shopping so if i have time
during the week i am going to go
shopping grocery shopping myself if i
don't i
use delivery service i'll order from
whole foods
um and just go down the list of
everything i meal planned and just add
it to my cart
so that it can be delivered to my house
and that's it when it comes
i you know i organize the fridge a clean
fridge is really useful for staying on
track
and i make sure that um anything i can
prep ahead like chopping up the
vegetables the sweet potatoes that type
of thing i can batch that
ahead of time if i want on sundays it
takes like 20 minutes i'll just cook my
veggies
and then everything else i can just
throw together because they're pretty
easy meals to throw together even if
you're
and you know don't have a lot of time
like me and
the only thing that is might be a
challenge for some of you is
that i do repeat a lot of the meals i
eat throughout the week
but i do also it gives me the
flexibility to bake
in sort of eating out more often
if i you know if i'm if i have my meals
planned for a few days i can see where
planning ahead oh i can go out this
night this will be a good night
and i can kind of fit it into my meal
planning for the day
but if you're someone who gets really
sick of meals really fast like you need
totally different foods every day
i would encourage you to probably just
keep your breakfast keep
change whichever meal is easiest to
change on a regular basis but try to
keep some things
more consistent because it'll be more
simpler if you can stick to
uh the types of foods that you love and
enjoy in a week and you won't get
overwhelmed trying to prep
completely new unique meals every day i
do think you can adjust
this you don't have to be like me and
eat like very similarly throughout the
week
but you could have some more regularity
so that in your mind it feels less
overwhelming it's simpler and you can
just get it done without the stress of
having to have like
unique meals every single time you sit
down so you guys i hope you enjoyed my
meal planning
video i love meal planning
i see it as a privilege and just a fun
part of my
weekend that i get to sit down and think
about food that i would enjoy eating for
the week and put it together for myself
that
makes me feel good that serves my goals
and
i hope that you guys got a lot out of
this let me know in the comments what
your biggest struggle with meal planning
is so that we can chat about it and give
this video a
like if you learned something new
subscribe for more content tailored to
the cute women and i will see you guys
next week
[Music]
bye
foreign
[Music]